the ruling of the international court of
justice on the legal status of the
Israeli occupation comes after five
months of
deliberations this is what the judges of
the world's highest court heard from
more than four dozen states and
international organizations back in
February that the Israeli occupation of
the West Bank including East Jerusalem
and Gaza is illegal because it's become
permanent it amounts to annexation it's
maintained by apartheid and it aims to
to deny Palestinians their freedom
Israel's policies of colonization and
land grab as well as the government's
program of full annexation were
referenced as proof and the data is
staggering nearly 400 illegal Israeli
settlements and outposts 780,000
settlers in the occupied West Bank
including East Jerusalem and the seizure
of
42% of the occupied West Bank and then
there's Israel's system of apartheid the
old city of Hebron is often cited as an
example where Israel has curbed the
movement in lives of 35,000 Palestinians
to facilitate the movement and presence
of 700 Israeli settlers judges also
heard about the different structural and
legal measures Israel uses to maintain
its apartheid like segregated roads
separate court systems political and
cultural persecution and 69 n
discriminatory laws the court is
weighing in on the crushing toll of the
Israeli occupation the killings
destruction of homes Mass detention and
forced
displacement Israel objects to the
proceedings at the icj its senior
ministers have threatened to declare the
full annexation of the occupied West
Bank in retaliation the Palestinians
believe the icj ruling could have a
significant impact especially because
the court has to define the
responsibilities of states and the
United Nations towards the situation
they hope to use that to push states to
force Israel to choose between permanent
occupation and isolation n Al jazer
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer